= Mida

* {Mida Project Page}[http://lawrencewoodman.github.com/mida]
* {Mida Github Repository}[https://github.com/LawrenceWoodman/mida]
* {Mida Bug Tracker}[https://github.com/LawrenceWoodman/mida/issues]

== Description
A Microdata[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Microdata_(HTML5)] parser and
extractor library for ruby.
This is based on the latest Published version of the Microdata Specification
dated {5th April 2011}[http://www.w3.org/TR/2011/WD-microdata-20110405/].

== Installation
Mida keeps RubyGems[http://rubygems.org/gems/mida] up-to-date with its latest version, so installing is as easy as:
  gem install mida

=== Requirements:

* +Nokogiri+

== Command Line Usage

To use the command line tool, supply it with the urls or filenames that you
would like to be parsed (by default each item is output as yaml):
  mida http://lawrencewoodman.github.com/mida/news/

If you want to search for specific types you can use the <tt>-t</tt> switch
followed by a Regular Expression:
  mida -t /person/i http://lawrencewoodman.github.com/mida/news/

For more information look at <tt>mida</tt>'s help:
  mida -h

== Library Usage
The following examples assume that you have required +mida+ and
<tt>open-uri</tt>.

=== Extracting Microdata from a page
All the Microdata is extracted from a page when a new <tt>Mida::Document</tt> instance
is created.

To extract all the Microdata from a webpage:
  url = 'http://example.com'
  open(url) {|f| doc = Mida::Document.new(f, url)}

The top-level +Items+ will be held in an array accessible via
<tt>doc.items</tt>.

To simply list all the top-level +Items+ that have been found:
  puts doc.items

=== Searching
If you want to search for an +Item+ that has a specific +itemtype+/vocabulary
this can be done with the +search+ method.

To return all the +Items+ that use one of Google's Review vocabularies:
  doc.search(%r{http://data-vocabulary\.org.*?review.*?}i)

=== Inspecting an +Item+
Each +Item+ is a <tt>Mida::Item</tt> instance and has four main methods of
interest: +type+, +vocabulary+, +properties+ and +id+.

To find out the +itemtype+ of the +Item+:
  puts doc.items.first.type

To find out the +itemid+ of the +Item+:
  puts doc.items.first.id

Properties are returned as a hash containing name/values pairs.  The
values will be an array of either +String+ or <tt>Mida::Item</tt> instances.

To see the +properties+ of the +Item+:
  puts doc.items.first.properties

=== Working with Vocabularies
Mida allows you to define vocabularies, so that input data can be constrained to match
expected patterns.  By default a generic vocabulary (<tt>Mida::GenericVocabulary</tt>)
is registered which will match against any +itemtype+ with any number of properties.

If you want to specify a vocabulary you create a class derived from <tt>Mida::Vocabulary</tt>.
As an example the following describes a subset of Google's Review vocabulary:

  class Rating < Mida::Vocabulary
    itemtype %r{http://data-vocabulary.org/rating}i
    has_one 'best'
    has_one 'worst'
    has_one 'value'
  end

  class Review < Mida::Vocabulary
    itemtype %r{http://data-vocabulary.org/review}i
    has_one 'itemreviewed'
    has_one 'rating' do
      extract Rating, Mida::DataType::Text
    end
  end

When you create a subclass of <tt>Mida::Vocabulary</tt> it automatically
registers the Vocabulary.

Now if Mida is parsing some input and manages to match against the +Review+ +itemtype+, it
will only allow the specified properties and will reject any that don't have the correct number.  It
will also set <tt>Item#vocabulary</tt> accordingly, e.g.
  doc.items.first.vocabulary      # => Review

If you want to include the properties of another vocabulary you can use
+include_vocabulary+:
  class Thing < Mida::Vocabulary
    itemtype %r{http://example.com/vocab/thing}i
    has_one 'name', 'description'
  end

  class Book < Mida::Vocabulary
    itemtype %r{http://example.com/vocab/book}i
    include_vocabulary Thing
    has_one 'title', 'author'
  end

  class Collection < Mida::Vocabulary
    itemtype %r{http://example.com/vocab/collection}i
    has_many 'item' do
      extract Thing
    end
  end

In the above if you gave a +Book+ as an item of +Collection+ this would be
accepted because it includes the +Thing+ vocabulary.

== Bugs/Feature Requests
If you find a bug or want to make a feature request, please report it at the
Mida project's {issues tracker}[https://github.com/LawrenceWoodman/mida/issues]
on github.

== Licence
Copyright (c) 2011 Lawrence Woodman.
This software is licensed under the MIT Licence.  Please see the file, LICENCE.rdoc, for details.
